# Ethics

# Definition

> **Philosophy**
    1. Philosophy is a set of views or beliefs about life and the universe.
    2. Philosophy is a process of reflecting on and criticizing our most deeply held conceptions and beliefs.
    3. Philosophy is a rational attempt to look at the universe as a whole.
    4. Philosophy is the logical analysis of language and the clarification of the meaning of words and concepts.

# Moral Laws

1. That we ought never to harm anyone.
1. That we ought to keep our promises, and
1. That we ought to obey or respect our guardians or authority.

# Ethics 

> **Ethics** is a branch of philosophy; it is moral philosophy or philosophical thinking about morality, moral problems and moral judgments.

>**Another definition**
We may define ethics as the normative science of the conduct of human beings living in societies-a science which judges this conduct to be right or wrong, to be good or bad, or in some similar way.

**Ethics differs from morals** and morality in that sense ethics denotes the theory of right action and the greater good, while morals indicate their practice.

There are four types of ethics:

1. Normative ethics
1. Descriptive ethics
1. Metaethics
1. Applied ethics

# The Development of Morality

Three stages of Morality:

1. The level of Instinct:
    The conduct that appears right  to the agent is the conduct determined by his fundamental needs and instinct-the innate tendencies.
1. The level of Custom:
    The conduct that appears right to the agent is conduct in accordance with the customs of the group to which he belongs.
1. The level of Conscience:
    The conduct that appears right to the agent is that approved by his own individual judgment of what is right and wrong.
