# EEE 452

# L01: Introduction to Engineering Economics

What engineers do?
> Apply the principles of **science** and **mathematics** to develop **economical solutions** to **technical problems**

Design/Build/Test/Analyze/Develop/Innovate -> Services/Products/Plants/Process/Systems

Role of Engineers in Business: Create & Design -> Analyze -> Evaluate -> Repeat

Engineers manage **product life cycle**.  

## Rational Decision Making process

Decision Problem Recognition -> Define goal -> Collect Information -> Identify alternatives -> Select decision criteria -> Select best decision.

1. **Equipment Replacement Problem**: When is the right time to replace old equipments? How much should be replaced?
1. **New Product and Product Expansion**: Should new product be introduced to meet increased demand? Is it worth marketing new product?

## Future Prediction

1. Required investment
1. Manufacturing cost
1. Product demand
1. Selling price
1. Product life


## Fundamental Principles of Engineering Economics

1. A nearby dollar is worth more than a distant dollar
1. All it counts is the differences among alternatives
1. Marginal revenue must exceed marginal cost. Think at margin.
1. Additional risk is not taken without the expected additional return
1. People face trade-offs
1. Opportunity cost is included
1. People respond to incentives
1. Trade Can Make Everyone Better Off.
1. Markets are good organization of economic activity
1. Government can sometime improve market
1. The Standard of Living Depends on a Country’s Production
1. Prices Rise When the Government Prints Too Much Money
1. Society Faces a Short-run trade-off Between Inflation and Unemployment.
