# Poetry Analysis

# London
```
I wander thro’ each charter’d street,
Near where the charter’d Thames does flow.
And mark in every face I meet
Marks of weakness, marks of woe.

In every cry of every Man,
In every Infants cry of fear,
In every voice: in every ban,
The mind-forg’d manacles I hear

How the Chimney-sweepers cry
Every black’ning Church appalls,
And the hapless Soldiers sigh
Runs in blood down Palace walls

But most thro’ midnight streets I hear
How the youthful Harlots curse
Blasts the new-born Infants tear
And blights with plagues the Marriage hearse
```

- The speaker wanders through the streets of London and comments on his observations.
- He sees despair in the faces of the people he meets and hears fear and repression in their voices.
- The poem has four **quatrains**, with alternate lines rhyming, **ABAB**.
- The poem’s title denotes a specific geographic space
- Blake’s repetition, thudding and oppressive, reflects the suffocating atmosphere of the city.
- Ironically, the speaker’s “meeting” with these marks represents the experience closest to a human encounter that the poem will offer the speaker. All the speaker’s subjects—men, infants, chimney-sweeper, soldier, harlot—are known only through the traces they leave behind: the ubiquitous cries, the blood on the palace walls.

1. In the first stanza, the speaker is walking through the streets of London, and, everywhere he turns, he sees the downtrodden faces of the poor. They look weak, tired, unhappy, and defeated.
1. In the second stanza, as the speaker continues his travels, he hears the people's voice everywhere. He hears the same pain and suffering in the cry of an infant to that of a grown man. To him, the people and their minds are not free. They are restrained or "manacled" by their various situations--mostly economical.
1. In the third stanza, the speaker reflects on and emphasizes how the wealthy or the elite take advantage of the poor. During Blake's time, much money went into the church while children were dying from poverty. Forced to sweep chimneys, the soot from the children's efforts would blacken the walls of the white church. This image symbolizes not only the Church's hypocrisy but the Christian religion (according to Blake).

    Furthermore, during the time frame of the poem, the wealthy/elite/royals were considered responsible for the wars that broke out, resulting in the death of many innocents and soldiers. Because of this, many women were widowed, and, without some one to support them, many families starved. (Remember that women were not in a position to gain many respectable jobs during this era.) Thus, the unfortunate solider's blood is on the hands of the wealthy.

1. In the last stanza, midnight streets is a direct reference to prostitution and the red district. Here, the speaker ruminates on how the young prostitutes' curse--referring to both profanity and her child out of wedlock--their children. Also, the oxymoron of "marriage" (to join) and "hearse" (to depart) suggests the destruction of marriage. Here, men are using prostitutes (who are more than likely children doing a dirty job out of necessity), impregnating them, and then possibly spreading diseases to their wives--thus "marriage hearse." This last stanza drives home the theme of society's moral decay.

# The Bean Eaters

```
They eat beans mostly, this old yellow pair.
Dinner is a casual affair.
Plain chipware on a plain and creaking wood,
Tin flatware.

Two who are Mostly Good.
Two who have lived their day,
But keep on putting on their clothes
And putting things away.

And remembering . . .
Remembering, with twinklings and twinges,
As they lean over the beans in their rented back room that
          is full of beads and receipts and dolls and cloths,
          tobacco crumbs, vases and fringes.
```

- "The Bean Eaters" by Gwendolyn Brooks is a short and seemingly simple poem about a couple who "eat beans mostly."
- The poem is only three quatrains long, but it packs a lot of meaning into those lines through the use of poetic devices like symbolism and metaphor.
- **Series of Symbols**: "The Bean Eaters" is full of symbolism. The title itself is symbolic, representing the poverty of the couple in the poem. Beans are a cheap food, and the couple eats them so often that they are referred to as "the bean eaters," indicating the severity of their poverty. Other symbols of the couple's poverty include the plain chipware, the tin flatware, the creaking wood, beads, cloths and tobacco crumbs. All of these items create a portrait of simplicity and need, providing an understanding of the couple's life together.
- **Metaphorical Imagery**: Several metaphors are used to create a portrait of the couple. The couple is referred to as a "yellow pair," indicating their advanced years. They have **yellowed like old paper**. The poem also describes the couple as having "lived their day" and who "keep on" doing the same things, such as putting on clothes and putting things away. These lines are metaphorical of their determination and their weariness. The couple keeps up with the same routine and keeps doing the same work, but doesn't make any progress. The lines reinforce their age, as well as their poverty.
- The casualness and simplicity of the couple's lives is reflected in the rhyme and meter of the poem. There is a very simple rhyme scheme -- AABA BCDC EFDF -- in which the second and fourth lines rhyme.

# Dule et Decorum Est

```
Bent double, like old beggars under sacks, 
Knock-kneed, coughing like hags, we cursed through sludge, 
Till on the haunting flares we turned our backs, 
And towards our distant rest began to trudge. 
Men marched asleep. Many had lost their boots, 
But limped on, blood-shod. All went lame; all blind; 
Drunk with fatigue; deaf even to the hoots 
Of gas-shells dropping softly behind. 
Gas! GAS! Quick, boys!—An ecstasy of fumbling 
Fitting the clumsy helmets just in time, 
But someone still was yelling out and stumbling 
And flound’ring like a man in fire or lime.—
Dim through the misty panes and thick green light, 
As under a green sea, I saw him drowning. 
In all my dreams before my helpless sight, 
He plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning.
If in some smothering dreams, you too could pace 
Behind the wagon that we flung him in, 
And watch the white eyes writhing in his face, 
His hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin; 
If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood 
Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs, 
Obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud 
Of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,— 
My friend, you would not tell with such high zest 
To children ardent for some desperate glory, 
The old Lie: Dulce et decorum est 
Pro patria mori.
```
