# Slavery

## Slavery in Ancient Near East (Mesopotamia)

**Works of slave**

- Slaves were important factor of Mesopotamian society
- But they were not in large numbers
- They were special perks of rich people
- Did not play major role in agriculture or manufacturing
- Worked in household service and agriculture, but not together in large numbers
- Slaves also worked for state and temples
- Some slaves earned wealth as land manipulators and lender, and even had slaves of their own

**Slaves in official records**

- Slaves could appear at court and provide testimony, but could not claim freedom


**Sources of slave**
- families of murderers were punished by forcing to become slaves
- to pay debt; such debt had limited duraration; 3 years according to Hammurabi's laws
- Foundlings were also enslaved
- children of slave parents
- slaves kidnapped from easter mountains, now Iran
- Bought from slave traders

**Slave heredity**

- The ancient Near East began the **Near Eastern descent system**
- One free parent made the child free
- If owner acknowledged a slave girl's child, then the child became an heir
- Otherwise, the child and mother would be set free without any claim as an heir

## Slavery in Pharaonic Egypt

**Different classes of people with limited freedom**
- Complicated terminology used to refer different classes of people with limited freedom
- Meanings of terminology changed over time
- slavery will therefore be defined as something imposed upon a person that makes him or her the property of a master so that they can be bought, sold, and inherited.

**Old kingdom slaves**

- The slave word is an element of the word for "priests" and "agricultural workers" (**h:m-nsw**)
- Servant
- Merets: "dependent worker" who are tied to agricultural lands for the state
- Merets could also be assigned non-agricultural works **corvee labor** (unfree labor performed as payment to state or landowner) such as building projects or even soldier.

**Middle kingdom slaves**

- **h:m-nsw** referred to people who belonged to state, normally as punishment for fleeing imprisonment.
- Once assigned this status, they could be given to individuals as property; they could be sold or passed down a family line. Basically, a slave.
- Also at this time, meret could be passed from one person to another and work in the service of the king, the elite, or temple estates.
- Prisoners of war were used as slave labor, and had the same rights as **h:m-nsw**.

**New kingdom slaves**

- merets now have same meaning as **h:m-nsw**
- Meret could now be given away by the king to members of the elite as reward for service
- Prisoners of war were labeled as meret and awared to soldiers
- Majority of merets would be sent to temple workshops
- Foreign slaves (**h:mw**) were available from slave dealers, who performed varieties of work.
- Egyptians who became slave due to debt were referred as **b3kw**. Their children and property also went to their new master.
- **b3kw** had almost same freedom as foreign slaves (**h:mw**), with the difference that debtors performed a single type of work
- Both **b3kw** and **h:mw** could own property and male slaves could marry free women, while masters could set slaves free.
- Slaves could be rented from state


<hr>

- Chattel Slave
- Bonded Slave
- Forced Labor

## Slavery in Ancient Greece

- Athens had large population of slaves
- Both Greeks and foreigners could be enslaved, usually due to debt
- for many, slavery was not lifelong or hereditary
- Masters did not abuse slave
- many slaves were prized workers who worked for pay, but were not free to go to new employer
- Many were employed directly by states
- Most of them were used in domestic work, rather than as **chattel** (personal possession; chattel slaves were often used as farm labors)
- slaves abused at polis owned silver mine, who were mostly criminals
- During **Hellenistic era**, most people were free, but number of slaves increased
- For the first time, people were enslaved for lifetime and it was hereditary

## Slavery in Rome

- Spread of Roman Slavery contributed to decline of free farmers and unusual militarism of Rome in the late republic and early empire.
- Slave revolts, though not common, required military presence.
- Displaced Italian farmers sought longer career in the military where they could earn more pay and land as veterans.
- Military expansions were vital source of slaves
- Slavery bought tension to the roman world.
- Example of prefect killed by slave and then all 400 of his slaves were executed.
- Being a slave was not the worst condition possible. Some people sought slavery to escape country side. This reflected wide spread poverty.
- Slaves could buy or gain freedom.
- Slaves worked the mines and quarries under brutal conditions. They also staffed large states, paid laborers and tenant farmers.
- Roman economy was dependent on slaves.
- In 134 BCE, some 70,000 slaves defeated a Roman Army in Sicily.
- Slaves ravaged Sicily again in 104 BCE.
- Extensive use of slaves resulted in stagnant production of technology in manufacturing and agriculture.

# The Transatlantic Slave Trade

## Atlantic Colonization and Slave Networks

- Slavery had disappeared in much of northwestern Europe by early 12th century.
- Slavery continued in Iberia, Italy and Mediterranean world.
- Slaver existed on a small scale.
- Major slave markets and slave economics were in the Ottoman Empire.
- Slave trades was not racially based
- Most slaves of this era were European Christians, predominantly Poles, Ukrainians, Greeks, and Bulgarians
- What was new about slavery in the fifteenth century, then, was its racialization
- To Europeans, African slaves were visible in ways that other slaves were not, and it became convenient for those who dealt in them to justify the mass deportation of entire populations by claiming their racial inferiority and their “natural” fitness for a life of bondage.

<hr>

- From early mid 15th century, Lisbon emerged as large market for enslaved Africans.
- 15k-20k Africans were sold within 20 year period during Prince Henry's lifetime.
- In the following 50 years, 1505, it was around 150k.
- Purchase of slave regarded as status symbol.
- Slaves were used in sugar mills, which was cash crop during last 25 years of 15th century.
- A new kind of slave based sugar plantation emerged in Portugal's Atlantic colonies in 1460, starting on the Cape Verde Islands and extending southward into the Gulf of Guinea.
- These islands were not populated when Portuguese began to settle them, and their climate discouraged Europeans from living there.
- They were however ideally located along routes of slave traders venturing outward from the nearby West African Coast.

## The Triangular Trade in Sugar and Slaves
- During 18th century, European colonial trade was dominated by trans-Atlantic routes that increased in response to the increased demand for sugar and tobacco and slaves to produce the previous two.
- In the triangular trade, Britain gained advantage due to naval superiority.
- France, Spain, Portugal and Netherland took part in triangular trade along with Britain.  
- A British ship begins its voyage from New England with a
- Typically, a British ship might begin its voyage from New England with a consignment of rum and sail to Africa, where the rum would be exchanged for a cargo of slaves. From the west coast of Africa the ship would then cross the South Atlantic to the sugar colonies of Jamaica or Barbados, where slaves would be traded for molasses. It would then make the final leg of the journey back to New England, where the molasses would be made into rum.
- A variant triangle might see cheap manufactured goods move from England to Africa, where they would be traded for slaves. Those slaves would then be shipped to Virginia and exchanged for tobacco, which would be shipped to England and processed there for sale throughout Europe.
- The cultivation of New World sugar and tobacco depended on slave labor. As European demand for these products increased, so too did the traffic in enslaved Africans.

# Maya Collapses

## Factors for diminishing and collapse

- Climatologists and pa- leoecologists have recently been able to recognize several signals of ancient climate and environmental changes that contributed to the Maya collapse.
- their environment presented some problems associated with its karst terrain and unpredictably fluctuating rainfall, but it does not rank as notably fragile by world standards
- They damaged their environment, especially by deforestation and erosion.
- Climate changes such as repeated droughts.
- Hostilities among Maya themselves
- Political and cultural factors: the competition among kings and nobles that led to a chronic emphasis on war and erecting monuments rather than on solving underlying problems
- Trade was not absolute for their survival and did not play role in their downfall.


<hr>

- Mayan homeland; seasonal rain-forest and seasonal desert
- lived 1000+ miles away from equator, where real rain-forests live
- Dry North vs Wet South
- Unpredictable rain; both in time and amount
- farmers faced crop failures due to mismatched rain, droughts and hurricanes
- Wet South had more drought, due to higher land elevation than water table.
- Dry North had access to deep caves and cenotes for water.
- Wet South had karst (porous sponge like) limestone terrain where rain ran straight through.

<hr>

- Humid climate made it tough to store corns for longer than a year.
- They had no animal powered tools.
- Porters limited their military campaigns.
- Hence Mayan remained politically divided, fighting among nearby neighbors.
- Hillside errossion due to cut-and-burn farming; man made droughts
- Plaster was major reason for deforestation
- Fight for farm land when hillside farmers descended to valley
- Very dense population 750-1500 people per square mile.

<hr>

- Yucatan was their habitat. Not a nice place to build civilization.
- Karst plain with bedrock of limestone
- Unpredictable rain
- They started to doubt their king and shamans. They thought they lost the connection with the gods.
- Anaemia
